The next step to building our block is to create the inspector controls what our inspector controls
the inspector controls are the settings that appear on the sidebar.
Let's select the recipe block for a moment.
If you look at the sidebar you'll see the custom class field all fields that appear here.
Our Inspector controls.
Let's see how WordPress uses this.
I'm going to add the paragraph block the paragraph block is simple but if you look at the sidebar then
you'll see that it's very flexible.
We can change the size of the text the background color and even change the alignment.
It's a very clean and simple design.
We can create our own custom controls or use the ones that come bundled by default for our recipe block.
We won't eat anything super complex but we will go over how to use these components later in the course.
Let's get started back inside the scripts.
We're going to need to load in a component at the very top destruct the inspector controls property
from the WP dot editor object.
This is a component just like any other component we can use it J.S. X name back inside the edit function
will want to return this component that may seem strange but just keep following along and it'll make
sense soon enough.
Here's the problem though we were already returning some JSA X code we need to be able to return.
The inspector controls component.
Luckily there is a way to return multiple components instead of just returning the block.
We're going to return an array.
This is a little tricky with react as I mentioned previously.
You can't have multiple root elements.
This will cause react to give you errors.
However you can return array of J six components allowing you to have multiple root elements right before
our block.
I'm going to use the inspector controls component.
I'm going to input the text.
Hello.
In between these two tags you'll notice that I'm not wrapping this around with a pair of parentheses.
If we're returning an array of components then we can omit the parentheses.
I'm going to remove the parentheses from our block.
I'll break this down in a moment but let's see if this works.
D into the blocks directory and run the NPM run Dev command
next go to the recipe post we created previously.
You should see everything working normally.
If you look inside the console then you should see no errors.
I'm going to select the recipe block we have here.
It should work without any errors.
If you look inside the inspector controls you'll see the hello message we input it.
Let's break down what's going on back inside the script.
We're returning an array of components.
This will tell WordPress that you have multiple components for it to use it will scan the array and
look for a component named Inspector controls.
If it finds this component then anything inside it will be rendered on the sidebar.
Anything else will be rendered as the block on the content portion itself.
With that said you don't have to arrange this in any particular order.
You can put the block itself as the first item in the array whatever you prefer.
In order to use the inspector controls you have to grab it from the WP or enter object like we're doing
above.
WordPress provides this component for you out of the box.
It will take care of placing your content in the correct area and we'll make sure it only displays if
the user selects your block.
Right now if we look at our UI it's not really appealing.
If you look below the title an icon you'll see that they see SS class field is under the advanced box.
This is what's called a panel.
Panels are toggle making them great for organization.
WordPress allows us to create our own panels easily.
Let's look at how that's done.
I want you to open the Gutenberg handbook.
You should have bookmarked it earlier on the sidebar.
Click on the components link WordPress states the following about this section.
This package is includes a library of generic WordPress components to be used for creating common UI
elements shared between screens and features of the WordPress dashboard.
The components found here can be used to create our own UI under this section.
You'll find loads of components we can use in our plugin.
One important thing I want to note is that some of the components here are not exclusive to the Gutenberg
editor.
A lot of these are generic components that can be used outside of Gutenberg.
If you wish components that are placed inside the components section are general components.
These components can be used anywhere in the Gutenberg UI they can be inside the sidebar or in the top
bar.
This isn't completely confirmed but there's a possibility that the whole WordPress admin dashboard will
be converted into a react app to prepare for that WordPress has gone ahead and prepared some generic
components like the ones you'll find in this section if you scroll down just a little further click
on the panel component.
This page will go over on how to use the panel components.
Feel free to read up on it to learn more about panels let's begin using the components listed here to
use a component from the components section.
We'll have to access them from the WP components object just like last time I want to d structure the
WP components object to make our code readable.
I'm going to grab two things which are at the panel body and panel row components the panel body component
will take care of creating the toggle panel you see in the sidebar the panel Rho component will take
care of spacing the content within the body of the panel.
This component is optional but the spacing will help with organization and readability.
Now that we're importing these components let's go back down to the inspector controls component and
add these in like so.
The panel body component has an attribute called title which we can use to assign a title to the panel.
I'm going to set this to basics and make it translatable as well.
Save your changes and refresh the page if you select the recipe block.
Then you'll see the panel appear.
It should have the title basics.
You can even toggle this panel.
This is great.
We did very little to make this work.
Now that we have a panel let's add the input fields so that the user can manipulate the block back inside
the editor.
I'm going to change the text inside the panel row and add a paragraph tag the text inside will be configure
the contents of the block here.
It will also be translatable
below the panel row component.
We're going to add our text fields.
You may be wondering why aren't we going to add the fields inside the panel row component.
Well to better explain why.
First we have to understand how form fields work in Gutenberg.
There are two ways to create form fields.
We can create them manually like we would for any typical female form.
Alternatively we can let WordPress create the fields.
There is no wrong answer here.
However one way is easier than the other.
It may not look like it but WordPress handles a lot for us behind the scenes to better understand this.
Let's look at one of the fields we'll be using go back to the handbook and under the component section
click the text control component
one of the components we'll be using is called text control the text control component is pretty straightforward
you just added in and define a few properties.
Let's dive even deeper.
I want you to open the get hub repository.
Just like last time you'll be able to find the components section inside the package directory.
All components can be found inside the source directory.
Let's quickly open the text control directory.
Most components start at the next dot J.S. file you may see more files and other components but that's
usually the case for more complex things inside this file.
There are quite a few things going on but I want our main focus to be on the input field.
As you can see all WordPress is doing is creating a regular input element.
This may not seem like much but all this here provides a better user experience.
Let's use this component to see what exactly is generated back inside the editor.
We're going to need to grab the text control component since this is INSIDE THE COMPONENTS folder.
It's safe to assume it's inside the WP components object.
If you're not sure where something is then feel free to long the WP object or read the documentation
inside.
The restructuring of the WP dot components object grab the text control component inside the inspector
control component.
We're going to add the text control component.
There are a couple of required attributes.
The first is the label attribute.
Set this to ingredients and make it translatable
then we're going to set the help attribute.
This is optional but if you have it then WordPress will add text below the field with additional instructions
on how to use this field.
The value for this will be.
Example tomatoes lettuce all of oil etc..
Up next is the value action view.
This will be the value of the field.
This should be dynamic but we're going to make it static for now.
We haven't talked about attributes yet so we're going to set this to test.
Lastly we have the on change attribute.
You may be used to listening for events in javascript but this is already javascript since that's the
case then J.S. sex provides a way to listen for events by using attributes.
Most events start with the word on followed by the name of the event.
In this case it would be when the input field is updated if it is then the value inside will be triggered.
Ninety nine percent of the time you'll want to run a function.
I'm going to pass an arrow function that will accept in a value
the value will be referred to as new Val.
Then I'm going to console dot log the value the new value variable will be whatever the user input it.
I know what may not make complete sense but react gives us the opportunity to work with the new value
before we save it.
We won't be saving it in this lecture we just want to log it to see if it works.
Save your changes and refresh the Gutenberg Ed. everything should be working fine.
Make sure your console is opened.
Select the recipe block you should see the input field up here before we go over what's generated.
Let's see if the on changed function is working.
Input anything you like.
You should see the value appear inside the console.
All right now that we've confirmed that the function is working let's see what's generated.
I want you to inspect the input field.
First things first the panel row component we use created this div tag with the class component panel
row.
If you look inside this you'll see the paragraph tag we created earlier right below this.
We should have the input field created by using the text control component WordPress generated some
extra HCM l the input itself will be inside the div tag with the class component base control all these
elements and classes bring structure to our input.
If you look at the input field you'll see that it matches in design as well.
We could have created this ourselves but why do that when WordPress takes care of it for us.
This makes our code look cleaner and easier to manage.
Another thing worth mentioning is the accessibility.
The Gutenberg Project has put emphasis on accessibility.
If you look at the input field you'll find an Ashby called Aria.
These attributes help people with disabilities use your component.
Accessibility is something that shouldn't be overlooked in a future lecture.
I go over accessibility a little more in-depth but for now we'll let WordPress handle it.
Hopefully I convinced you to use the components WordPress provides rather than creating this on your
own.
Let's go back to the editor and create fields for the other options.
I'm going to copy and paste this two more times I'll update each one for the cooking time and utensils
pause the video so you can have what I have.
We're going to need two more fields for the cooking experience and meal type options rather than using
an input field.
We're going to use a dropdown field.
Let's go back to the handbook.
The name of the component will be using this time is called Select control here's what WordPress has
to say.
Select control component is used to generate select input fields just by reading that we know that this
is indeed the component we want to use.
Just to double check.
Let's view the indexed J.S. file in the get Hub Repository.
You can find this inside the packages slash components slash the source slash select control directory
if you look inside the code you'll find the element generated is a select element with the options inside.
All right let's begin back inside the scripts.
We need to d structure these select control component from the WP components object
then under the input text fields.
Use these select control component
the label will be cooking experience and the help attribute will be how skilled should the reader be.
Both will be translatable
next is the value attribute.
Just like last time we'll make this static.
I'm going to set it to beginner.
Next we have the options attribute.
This will be set to an array of all the values.
Each value should be an object.
Each object will need two properties called value end label.
I'm going to set both two beginner.
I'm going to add two more objects with the values intermediate and expert
this array will be used to generate the options for the select field.
The value will be used for the value attribute and the label should be human readable text.
The very last attribute will need to set is the on change attribute.
Once again this will be an arrow function where we'll log the new value
I'm now going to do the same for the meal type option.
This time the values for the options will be breakfast lunch and dinner
paused the video if you need to have what I have save your changes and refresh the page one last time.
If you select the recipe block then you'll find the select input fields appear.
These will not work but that's to be expected.
If you were to change the value then you'll see that the value is longer.
However the value inside the dropdown does not change.
This is because the value is static.
We will be making this dynamic in a future lecture.
If you have what I have then congrats we're finished.
We went through a lot just to get this far but it was well worth it.
We have a consistent and clean you want.
Feel free to explore the options and values documented in the documentation.
Check out the code change the values create more fields.
Better yet check out the other components we'll be going over the other components but feed into your
curiosity and explore the other components before continuing.
Once you're ready I'll see you in the next lecture.